<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
       <title>NASA Earth Exchange (NEX) Downscaled Climate Projections (NEX-DCP30)</title>
       <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="site.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
       <header>
          <h1>NASA Earth Exchange (NEX) Downscaled Climate Projections</h1>
          <p>This service provides the OpenNEX NEX-DCP30 data set as web-accessible data annotated with RDFa.</p>
       </header>
       <section>
          <h2>Demonstrations</h2>
          <p>View a <a href="./explore/">demonstration</a> that lets you browse the data via a map-based <q>heat map</q>.</p>
          <section>
             <h3>How it Works</h3>
             <p>The demonstration uses <a href="http://leafletjs.com">Leaflet</a>  to display a map
               and then adds an overlay of a heatmap of the temperature for a particular year and
               month. There is a slider control with buttons to the left or right to select a
               particular year and month or sequence through them. At the bottom of the page, there
               are buttons for selecting one of four data sets produced for NEX-DCP30.</p>
            <p>The heat map application reads the temperature data, received as tables with RDFa
               annotations, directly from the Web, and uses simple SVG overlays to draw onto the
               map. All the rendering, including the mashup with the underlying map, zooms and
               scrolling, is done on the client. The application uses the 1/2 degree data, but it
               would only take a small change to use a different scale, or allow changes between
               scales.</p>
            <p>The raw data is accessible from the same Web server as the Web application. This is
               not a requirement---the application can be hosted anywhere, as the data services all
               use <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing"
               >CORS</a>.</p>
          </section>
       </section>
       <section>
          <h2>Data Access</h2>
          <p>The data is stored in the native grid resolution of 1/120° but it is summarized in 1°, 1/2°, 1/4° quadrangles.  Each summary contains a link to a partition (a quadrangle)
             of the data whose dimensions are of the same size (e.g., 1/2° summary points to 1/2° quadrangles).  The partition is labeled with a 
             <a href="http://www.pantabular.org">quadrangle sequence number</a>.</p>
          <p>Each summary is accessible at:</p>
          <pre>./data/{name}/{yearMonth}/{resolution}/</pre>
          <p>where:</p>
          <ul>
             <li><em>name</em> — a data set name (e.g., 'avg-rcp85')</li>
             <li><em>yearMonth</em> — the year and month for the summary (e.g., '2014-10')</li>
             <li><em>resolution</em> — the summary size in 1/120° increments that must be one of 30, 60, or 120 for 1/4°, 1/2°, 1°, respectively</li>
          </ul>
          <p>Each quadrangle partition is accessible at:</p>
          <pre>./data/{name}/{yearMonth}/{resolution}/{partition}</pre>
          <p>where <em>partition</em> is the sequence number of the quadrangle.</p>
          
          <p>For example, to access a 1/2° summary for 2014-10 of the average model, you use:</p>
          <pre><a href="./data/avg-rcp85/2014-10/60/" target="data">./data/avg-rcp85/2014-10/60/</a></pre>
          <p>The returned summary has links to various partitions.  These partitions are accessible individually:</p>
          <pre><a href="./data/avg-rcp85/2014-10/60/60235" target="data">./data/avg-rcp85/2014-10/60/60235</a></pre>
       </section>
    </body>
</html>